docs/bun/BUN_FIRST_POLICY.md, before:

<!-- Prefetch Optimizations -->
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://bun.sh">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://bun.sh">
  <link rel="preload" href="https://bun.sh/logo.svg" importance="high" crossorigin="anonymous">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://example.com">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://example.com">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://github.com">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://github.com">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://developer.mozilla.org">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://developer.mozilla.org">
<!-- End Prefetch Optimizations -->

# 🦌 Bun-First Policy & Implementation Guide

## 🎯 Core Principle: **ALWAYS USE BUN FIRST!**

### 📋 Policy Statement

**All code must prioritize Bun's native APIs over Node.js compatibility APIs.**
When a Bun equivalent exists, it MUST be used instead of the Node.js version.

---

## 🚨 Critical Replacements Required

### File System Operations

| ❌ Node.js API       | ✅ Bun Equivalent             | Performance Gain        |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `require("fs")`      | `Bun.file()`, `Bun.write()`   | **3x faster**           |
| `fs.readFileSync()`  | `await Bun.file().text()`     | **Async, non-blocking** |
| `fs.writeFileSync()` | `await Bun.write()`           | **2x faster writes**    |
| `fs.existsSync()`    | `await Bun.file().exists()`   | **Async, reliable**     |
| `fs.mkdirSync()`     | `await Bun.write()` with dirs | **Built-in**            |

### HTTP Operations

| ❌ Node.js API                       | ✅ Bun Equivalent      | Performance Gain          |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `require("http")`                    | `Bun.serve()`          | **2x faster server**      |
| `http.createServer()`                | `Bun.serve()`          | **Native performance**    |
| `https.createServer()`               | `Bun.serve()` with TLS | **Built-in HTTPS**        |
| `require("https")`                   | `Bun.serve()`          | **Simplified API**        |
| `new Response(JSON.stringify(data))` | `Response.json(data)`  | **Parity in Bun v1.3.6+** |

### YAML Configuration Operations

| ❌ External Library   | ✅ Bun Equivalent      | Performance Gain            |
| --------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `require("yaml")`     | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **5x faster parsing**       |
| `require("js-yaml")`  | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Native, no dependencies** |
| `yaml.parse()`        | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Built-in validation**     |
| `load()` from js-yaml | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Multi-document support**  |
| `yaml.stringify()`    | `Bun.YAML.stringify()` | **Native serialization**    |

### Configuration File Imports

| ❌ External Library          | ✅ Bun Equivalent                    | Performance Gain          |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `import yaml from 'js-yaml'` | `import { YAML } from "bun"`         | **Zero dependencies**     |
| `YAML.load()`                | `YAML.parse()`                       | **Native performance**    |
| Custom YAML loaders          | `import config from "./config.yaml"` | **Direct import support** |

### Path Operations

| ❌ Node.js API    | ✅ Bun Equivalent                         | Benefits                         |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `require("path")` | `import.meta.path`                        | **Built-in path handling**       |
| `path.join()`     | Template literals with `import.meta.path` | **No external dependency**       |
| `path.resolve()`  | `new URL()` with `import.meta.path`       | **Native URL handling**          |
| `path.dirname()`  | `import.meta.dir`                         | **Built-in directory detection** |

---

## 🔒 Runtime Reliability & Security Baseline (Bun v1.3.6+)

Track and enforce these fixes/features in runtime-sensitive codepaths:

### Node compatibility fixes

- `node:http`: CONNECT handler must preserve pipelined `head` bytes (workerd/KJ
  compatibility).
- temp dir resolution must follow Node order: `TMPDIR` -> `TMP` -> `TEMP`.
- `node:zlib`: avoid repeated `reset()` leak patterns in Brotli/Zstd/Zlib
  stream-heavy loops.
- `ws` compatibility: ensure proxy flows support the `agent` option when interop
  requires it.
- `node:http2`: verify flow-control-sensitive endpoints under load.

### Bun API/runtime fixes to rely on

- `Bun.write()`: safe large file writes (>2GB), `mode` option must be honored
  for `Bun.file()` copies.
- proxy stack: handle concurrent 407 auth failures, `NO_PROXY` empty-entry
  parsing edge cases.
- `Bun.serve()` streaming proxying: validate no retained streams in long-lived
  routes.
- subprocess/shell: guard rare stdin cleanup and `&>` redirect edge cases.
- worker-thread async ops: avoid premature GC assumptions in
  zstd/scrypt/transpiler-heavy jobs.

### Data/DB correctness

- MySQL Bun SQL: `BINARY`/`VARBINARY`/`BLOB` must stay `Buffer`, not coerced
  UTF-8 strings.
- Postgres Bun SQL: arrays with large strings/JSON (>16KB) and empty arrays
  (`{}`) must parse cleanly.
- SQL JSON parse failures must throw `SyntaxError` and never silently coerce to
  empty values.
- S3 credential validation: reject invalid `pageSize`, `partSize`, `retry`
  outside allowed ranges.

### Security requirements

- Null-byte rejection is required for `Bun.spawn`, `Bun.spawnSync`, env vars,
  and shell templates.
- TLS wildcard matching must follow RFC 6125 section 6.4.3; do not add
  permissive overrides.

### Required review checks

- File-copy permissions: when using
  `Bun.write(target, Bun.file(source), { mode })`, always set and verify
  explicit `mode`; never rely on inherited source permissions.
- Null-byte hardening (CWE-158): reject or sanitize `\0` in process args, env
  values, and shell template inputs before constructing spawn/shell calls.

### Root hygiene placement rules

- Generated Bun release-note summaries belong in
  `docs/generated/bun-release-notes/`, not project root.
- Demo/template runnable files belong in `examples/demos/bun/`, not project
  root.
- Root-level generated artifacts must be moved before merge.

---

## 🚀 Implementation Examples

### File Operations - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { readFileSync, writeFileSync } from 'fs';
const content = readFileSync('input.txt', 'utf8');
writeFileSync('output.txt', content);

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const content = await Bun.file('input.txt').text();
await Bun.write('output.txt', content);
```

### HTTP Server - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { createServer } from 'http';
const server = createServer((req, res) => {
  res.end('Hello');
});

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const server = Bun.serve({
  fetch() {
    return new Response('Hello');
  },
});
```

### Process Spawning - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { spawn } from 'child_process';
const child = spawn('echo', ['hello']);

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const child = Bun.spawn(['echo', 'hello']);
```

### Path Handling - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { join } from 'path';
const fullPath = join(__dirname, 'file.txt');

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const fullPath = `${import.meta.dir}/file.txt`;
```

---

## 📊 Current Compliance Status

### ✅ Files Following Bun-First Principles:

- `lib/fixed-audit.ts` - Uses Bun.file() API
- `lib/url-pattern-fixer.ts` - Uses Bun.write()
- `lib/silent-killer-detector.ts` - Uses Bun.file()

### ⚠️ Files Needing Updates:

- Several files still using Node.js APIs
- Import statements with `require()`
- Missing Bun optimizations

### 🎯 Target Compliance: **100%**

---

## 🛡️ Enforcement Rules

### 1. Code Reviews

- **MUST** check for Node.js API usage
- **MUST** verify Bun equivalents are used
- **MUST** validate async patterns

### 2. Automated Testing

- **MUST** include Bun-first compliance checks
- **MUST** fail builds with Node.js APIs
- **MUST** enforce performance benchmarks

### 3. Documentation

- **MUST** document Bun-first patterns
- **MUST** provide migration examples
- **MUST** include performance comparisons

---

## 🔧 Migration Checklist

### Phase 1: Critical Replacements

- [ ] Replace all `require("fs")` with `Bun.file()`
- [ ] Replace `fs.readFileSync()` with `await Bun.file().text()`
- [ ] Replace `fs.writeFileSync()` with `await Bun.write()`
- [ ] Replace `require("http")` with `Bun.serve()`
- [ ] Replace `child_process.spawn()` with `Bun.spawn()`

### Phase 2: Optimizations

- [ ] Use `Bun.fetch()` instead of global `fetch()`
- [ ] Use `import.meta.main` for entry detection
- [ ] Use `import.meta.path` and `import.meta.dir` for paths
- [ ] Replace `require("path")` with built-in path handling

### Phase 3: Advanced Features

- [ ] Implement Bun's native SQLite
- [ ] Use Bun's built-in test runner
- [ ] Leverage Bun's file system watching
- [ ] Utilize Bun's native crypto APIs

---

## 📈 Performance Benefits

### Expected Improvements:

- 🚀 **3x faster** file operations
- 🌐 **2x faster** HTTP serving
- ⚡ **Native** process spawning
- 🔧 **Zero dependencies** for core operations
- 📦 **Smaller bundle sizes**

### Real-world Impact:

- Faster startup times
- Reduced memory usage
- Better throughput
- Simplified deployments
- Lower server costs

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Technical Metrics:

- **100%** Bun API compliance
- **0** Node.js require statements
- **All** file operations using Bun.file()
- **All** HTTP servers using Bun.serve()

### Performance Metrics:

- **3x** improvement in file I/O
- **2x** improvement in HTTP serving
- **5x** improvement in YAML parsing
- **50%** reduction in memory usage
- **25%** faster startup times

---

## 📋 YAML Configuration Policy (NEW)

### 🎯 **MANDATORY: Use Bun.YAML for All YAML Operations**

#### **Basic YAML Parsing**

```typescript
// ❌ FORBIDDEN: External YAML libraries
import { parse } from 'yaml';
import { load } from 'js-yaml';

// ✅ REQUIRED: Bun native YAML
import { YAML } from 'bun';

// Parse YAML string
const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);

// Parse YAML file directly
const configFile = await Bun.file('config.yaml').text();
const config = YAML.parse(configFile);

// Direct import (Bun supports this natively)
import config from './config.yaml';
```

#### **Multi-Document YAML Support**

```typescript
// ✅ Bun handles multi-document YAML natively
const multiDoc = `
---
name: Document 1
---
name: Document 2
---
name: Document 3
`;

const documents = YAML.parse(multiDoc);
// Returns: [{ name: "Document 1" }, { name: "Document 2" }, { name: "Document 3" }]
```

#### **Advanced YAML Features**

```typescript
// ✅ All YAML features supported natively
const advancedYaml = `
# Anchors and aliases
defaults: &defaults
  timeout: 30
  retries: 3

production:
  <<: *defaults
  host: prod.example.com

# Explicit types
port: !!int 8080
debug: !!bool true
path: !!str /api/v1

# Multi-line strings
description: |
  This is a literal
  multi-line string

summary: >
  This is a folded
  string that joins
  lines with spaces
`;

const config = YAML.parse(advancedYaml);
```

#### **Error Handling**

```typescript
// ✅ Proper error handling with Bun
try {
  const config = YAML.parse(yamlContent);
  console.log('YAML parsed successfully');
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof SyntaxError) {
    console.error('YAML syntax error:', error.message);
  } else {
    console.error('YAML parsing failed:', error);
  }
}
```

### 🚨 **CRITICAL MIGRATIONS REQUIRED**

#### **Replace js-yaml Usage**

```typescript
// ❌ REMOVE THESE PATTERNS:
import { load, dump } from 'js-yaml';
import yaml from 'js-yaml';

const config = load(yamlString);
const output = dump(config);

// ✅ REPLACE WITH:
import { YAML } from 'bun';

const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);
const output = YAML.stringify(config);
```

#### **Replace yaml Library Usage**

```typescript
// ❌ REMOVE THESE PATTERNS:
import { parse, stringify } from 'yaml';

const config = parse(yamlString);
const output = stringify(config);

// ✅ REPLACE WITH:
import { YAML } from 'bun';

const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);
const output = YAML.stringify(config);
```

#### **Update Configuration Loading**

```typescript
// ❌ OLD PATTERN:
import fs from 'fs';
import yaml from 'js-yaml';
const config = yaml.load(fs.readFileSync('config.yaml', 'utf8'));

// ✅ NEW PATTERN:
import { YAML } from 'bun';
const config = YAML.parse(await Bun.file('config.yaml').text());

// OR EVEN BETTER - Direct import:
import config from './config.yaml';
```

### 📊 **Performance Benefits**

| Operation       | js-yaml | Bun.YAML | Improvement   |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------- |
| Parse 1KB YAML  | 2.5ms   | 0.5ms    | **5x faster** |
| Parse 10KB YAML | 25ms    | 5ms      | **5x faster** |
| Multi-document  | 15ms    | 3ms      | **5x faster** |
| Memory usage    | 2MB     | 0.4MB    | **5x less**   |
| Dependencies    | 15MB    | 0MB      | **Zero deps** |

### 🔧 **Configuration Best Practices**

#### **Environment-Specific Configs**

```typescript
// ✅ Load environment-specific YAML configs
const loadConfig = async (env: string) => {
  try {
    const config = await import(`./config.${env}.yaml`);
    return config.default;
  } catch {
    // Fallback to default config
    const defaultConfig = await import('./config.yaml');
    return defaultConfig.default;
  }
};

const config = await loadConfig(process.env.NODE_ENV || 'development');
```

#### **Configuration Validation**

```typescript
// ✅ Validate YAML config structure
interface AppConfig {
  server: {
    port: number;
    host: string;
  };
  database: {
    url: string;
    timeout: number;
  };
}

const validateConfig = (config: any): config is AppConfig => {
  return (
    config?.server?.port &&
    config?.server?.host &&
    config?.database?.url &&
    config?.database?.timeout
  );
};

const config = YAML.parse(yamlContent);
if (!validateConfig(config)) {
  throw new Error('Invalid configuration structure');
}
```

#### **Hot Reloding Configuration**

```typescript
// ✅ Hot reload YAML configs
let currentConfig = await loadConfig();

const reloadConfig = async () => {
  try {
    const newConfig = YAML.parse(await Bun.file('config.yaml').text());
    if (JSON.stringify(newConfig) !== JSON.stringify(currentConfig)) {
      currentConfig = newConfig;
      console.log('Configuration reloaded');
    }
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Failed to reload config:', error);
  }
};

// Watch for config changes
setInterval(reloadConfig, 5000);
```

---

## 🚨 Immediate Actions Required

### 1. Audit Existing Code

```bash
bun lib/bun-first-compliance.ts
```

### 2. Fix Critical Violations

- Replace Node.js imports
- Update file operations
- Migrate HTTP servers
- **MIGRATE ALL YAML USAGE TO BUN.YAML**

### 3. Update Development Practices

- Use Bun-first patterns in new code
- Add compliance checks to CI/CD
- Train team on Bun APIs
- **Enforce YAML-only configuration policy**

### 4. YAML Migration Checklist

- [ ] Remove `js-yaml` dependencies
- [ ] Replace `yaml` library imports
- [ ] Update all `YAML.load()` calls to `YAML.parse()`
- [ ] Replace `yaml.stringify()` with `YAML.stringify()`
- [ ] Implement direct YAML imports where possible
- [ ] Add YAML validation to CI/CD
- [ ] Update documentation and examples

---

## 🦌 Bun-First Manifesto

**We choose Bun first not just for performance, but for simplicity, reliability,
and the future of JavaScript runtime optimization.**

**Every line of code should leverage Bun's native capabilities. Every API call
should prioritize Bun's implementations. Every performance optimization should
start with Bun's built-in features.**

**This is our commitment to excellence, our dedication to performance, and our
investment in the future of web development.**

---

## 📞 Support & Resources

### Documentation:

- [Bun Documentation 🌐](https://bun.sh/docs)
- [Bun API Reference 🌐](https://bun.sh/docs/api)
- [Migration Guide](./BUN_FIRST_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)

### Tools:

- `lib/bun-first-compliance.ts` - Compliance auditor
- `lib/silent-killer-detector.ts` - Pattern detector
- `BUN_FIRST_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md` - Step-by-step guide

### Getting Help:

- Check compliance reports
- Review migration examples
- Consult Bun documentation
- Ask for code review

---

**Remember: ALWAYS USE BUN FIRST! 🦌**

Commit message:

chore: reorganize root-level files into dedicated directories
Organized 175+ scattered files into appropriate directories:

- examples/demos/ - Demo files (20 files)
- docs/bun-analysis/ - BUN analysis docs (17 files)
- docs/wiki/, docs/shell/, docs/readmes/ - Documentation (25+ files)
- docs/error-handling/, docs/security/ - Guides (6 files)
- docs/venmo/, docs/context/, docs/implementation/ - Feature docs (9 files)
- archive/factory-wager/, archive/freshcuts/ - Archived projects (34 files)
- public/dashboards/ - HTML dashboard files (22 files)
- data/exports/, data/ - Data files (15 files)
- database/ - Database files (5 files)
- logs/demo/ - Log files (9 files)
- scripts/, scripts/deploy/ - Scripts (13 files)
- assets/ - Static assets (2 files)
- config/ - Configuration files (2 files)

Also updated files with Bun fix documentation:
- freshcuts-deep-linking.ts
- factorywager/registry/packages/dev-dashboard/src/enhanced-dashboard.ts
- services/core/advanced-fetch-service.ts
- projects/enterprise/fantasy42-fire22-registry/src/services/websocket-server.ts
- lib/core/url-handler.ts
- server/base-server.ts
- projects/experimental/trader-analyzer/src/utils/deeplink-generator.ts
- lib/security/security-integration-checklist.ts
- tier1380/bun-native-utils.ts
- scripts/search-smart.ts
- factorywager/registry/packages/dev-dashboard/src/core/init.ts
- projects/games/2048/demos/bun-136-http2-flowcontrol.ts
- src/fetch/enhanced-fetch.ts

Added integration guides:
- BUN-SECURITY-FIXES-INTEGRATION.md
- BUN-ADDITIONAL-FIXES-INTEGRATION.md
- BUN-API-HTTP2-FETCH-FIXES-INTEGRATION.md
- ROOT_CLEANUP_SUMMARY.md

docs/bun/BUN_FIRST_POLICY.md, after:

<!-- Prefetch Optimizations -->
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://bun.sh">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://bun.sh">
  <link rel="preload" href="https://bun.sh/logo.svg" importance="high" crossorigin="anonymous">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://example.com">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://example.com">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://github.com">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://github.com">
  <link rel="preconnect" href="https://developer.mozilla.org">
  <link rel="dns-prefetch" href="https://developer.mozilla.org">
<!-- End Prefetch Optimizations -->

# 🦌 Bun-First Policy & Implementation Guide

## 🎯 Core Principle: **ALWAYS USE BUN FIRST!**

### 📋 Policy Statement

**All code must prioritize Bun's native APIs over Node.js compatibility APIs.**
When a Bun equivalent exists, it MUST be used instead of the Node.js version.

---

## 🚨 Critical Replacements Required

### File System Operations

| ❌ Node.js API       | ✅ Bun Equivalent             | Performance Gain        |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| `require("fs")`      | `Bun.file()`, `Bun.write()`   | **3x faster**           |
| `fs.readFileSync()`  | `await Bun.file().text()`     | **Async, non-blocking** |
| `fs.writeFileSync()` | `await Bun.write()`           | **2x faster writes**    |
| `fs.existsSync()`    | `await Bun.file().exists()`   | **Async, reliable**     |
| `fs.mkdirSync()`     | `await Bun.write()` with dirs | **Built-in**            |

### HTTP Operations

| ❌ Node.js API                       | ✅ Bun Equivalent      | Performance Gain          |
| ------------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| `require("http")`                    | `Bun.serve()`          | **2x faster server**      |
| `http.createServer()`                | `Bun.serve()`          | **Native performance**    |
| `https.createServer()`               | `Bun.serve()` with TLS | **Built-in HTTPS**        |
| `require("https")`                   | `Bun.serve()`          | **Simplified API**        |
| `new Response(JSON.stringify(data))` | `Response.json(data)`  | **Parity in Bun v1.3.6+** |

### YAML Configuration Operations

| ❌ External Library   | ✅ Bun Equivalent      | Performance Gain            |
| --------------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------------- |
| `require("yaml")`     | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **5x faster parsing**       |
| `require("js-yaml")`  | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Native, no dependencies** |
| `yaml.parse()`        | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Built-in validation**     |
| `load()` from js-yaml | `Bun.YAML.parse()`     | **Multi-document support**  |
| `yaml.stringify()`    | `Bun.YAML.stringify()` | **Native serialization**    |

### Configuration File Imports

| ❌ External Library          | ✅ Bun Equivalent                    | Performance Gain          |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| `import yaml from 'js-yaml'` | `import { YAML } from "bun"`         | **Zero dependencies**     |
| `YAML.load()`                | `YAML.parse()`                       | **Native performance**    |
| Custom YAML loaders          | `import config from "./config.yaml"` | **Direct import support** |

### Path Operations

| ❌ Node.js API    | ✅ Bun Equivalent                         | Benefits                         |
| ----------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `require("path")` | `import.meta.path`                        | **Built-in path handling**       |
| `path.join()`     | Template literals with `import.meta.path` | **No external dependency**       |
| `path.resolve()`  | `new URL()` with `import.meta.path`       | **Native URL handling**          |
| `path.dirname()`  | `import.meta.dir`                         | **Built-in directory detection** |

---

## 🔒 Runtime Reliability & Security Baseline (Bun v1.3.6+)

Track and enforce these fixes/features in runtime-sensitive codepaths:

### Node compatibility fixes

- `node:http`: CONNECT handler must preserve pipelined `head` bytes (workerd/KJ
  compatibility).
- temp dir resolution must follow Node order: `TMPDIR` -> `TMP` -> `TEMP`.
- `node:zlib`: avoid repeated `reset()` leak patterns in Brotli/Zstd/Zlib
  stream-heavy loops.
- `ws` compatibility: ensure proxy flows support the `agent` option when interop
  requires it.
- `node:http2`: verify flow-control-sensitive endpoints under load.

### Bun API/runtime fixes to rely on

- `Bun.write()`: safe large file writes (>2GB), `mode` option must be honored
  for `Bun.file()` copies.
- proxy stack: handle concurrent 407 auth failures, `NO_PROXY` empty-entry
  parsing edge cases.
- `Bun.serve()` streaming proxying: validate no retained streams in long-lived
  routes.
- subprocess/shell: guard rare stdin cleanup and `&>` redirect edge cases.
- worker-thread async ops: avoid premature GC assumptions in
  zstd/scrypt/transpiler-heavy jobs.

### Data/DB correctness

- MySQL Bun SQL: `BINARY`/`VARBINARY`/`BLOB` must stay `Buffer`, not coerced
  UTF-8 strings.
- Postgres Bun SQL: arrays with large strings/JSON (>16KB) and empty arrays
  (`{}`) must parse cleanly.
- SQL JSON parse failures must throw `SyntaxError` and never silently coerce to
  empty values.
- S3 credential validation: reject invalid `pageSize`, `partSize`, `retry`
  outside allowed ranges.

### Security requirements

- Null-byte rejection is required for `Bun.spawn`, `Bun.spawnSync`, env vars,
  and shell templates.
- TLS wildcard matching must follow RFC 6125 section 6.4.3; do not add
  permissive overrides.

### Required review checks

- File-copy permissions: when using
  `Bun.write(target, Bun.file(source), { mode })`, always set and verify
  explicit `mode`; never rely on inherited source permissions.
- Null-byte hardening (CWE-158): reject or sanitize `\0` in process args, env
  values, and shell template inputs before constructing spawn/shell calls.

### Root hygiene placement rules

- Generated Bun release-note summaries belong in
  `docs/generated/bun-release-notes/`, not project root.
- Demo/template runnable files belong in `examples/demos/bun/`, not project
  root.
- Test artifacts and scratch fixtures belong in `tests/root-artifacts/`.
- Runtime logs belong in `logs/`.
- Local telemetry/database artifacts belong in `data/`.
- Root-level generated artifacts must be moved before merge.

---

## 🚀 Implementation Examples

### File Operations - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { readFileSync, writeFileSync } from 'fs';
const content = readFileSync('input.txt', 'utf8');
writeFileSync('output.txt', content);

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const content = await Bun.file('input.txt').text();
await Bun.write('output.txt', content);
```

### HTTP Server - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { createServer } from 'http';
const server = createServer((req, res) => {
  res.end('Hello');
});

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const server = Bun.serve({
  fetch() {
    return new Response('Hello');
  },
});
```

### Process Spawning - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { spawn } from 'child_process';
const child = spawn('echo', ['hello']);

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const child = Bun.spawn(['echo', 'hello']);
```

### Path Handling - Bun First

```typescript
// ❌ WRONG - Node.js way
import { join } from 'path';
const fullPath = join(__dirname, 'file.txt');

// ✅ CORRECT - Bun-first way
const fullPath = `${import.meta.dir}/file.txt`;
```

---

## 📊 Current Compliance Status

### ✅ Files Following Bun-First Principles:

- `lib/fixed-audit.ts` - Uses Bun.file() API
- `lib/url-pattern-fixer.ts` - Uses Bun.write()
- `lib/silent-killer-detector.ts` - Uses Bun.file()

### ⚠️ Files Needing Updates:

- Several files still using Node.js APIs
- Import statements with `require()`
- Missing Bun optimizations

### 🎯 Target Compliance: **100%**

---

## 🛡️ Enforcement Rules

### 1. Code Reviews

- **MUST** check for Node.js API usage
- **MUST** verify Bun equivalents are used
- **MUST** validate async patterns

### 2. Automated Testing

- **MUST** include Bun-first compliance checks
- **MUST** fail builds with Node.js APIs
- **MUST** enforce performance benchmarks

### 3. Documentation

- **MUST** document Bun-first patterns
- **MUST** provide migration examples
- **MUST** include performance comparisons

---

## 🔧 Migration Checklist

### Phase 1: Critical Replacements

- [ ] Replace all `require("fs")` with `Bun.file()`
- [ ] Replace `fs.readFileSync()` with `await Bun.file().text()`
- [ ] Replace `fs.writeFileSync()` with `await Bun.write()`
- [ ] Replace `require("http")` with `Bun.serve()`
- [ ] Replace `child_process.spawn()` with `Bun.spawn()`

### Phase 2: Optimizations

- [ ] Use `Bun.fetch()` instead of global `fetch()`
- [ ] Use `import.meta.main` for entry detection
- [ ] Use `import.meta.path` and `import.meta.dir` for paths
- [ ] Replace `require("path")` with built-in path handling

### Phase 3: Advanced Features

- [ ] Implement Bun's native SQLite
- [ ] Use Bun's built-in test runner
- [ ] Leverage Bun's file system watching
- [ ] Utilize Bun's native crypto APIs

---

## 📈 Performance Benefits

### Expected Improvements:

- 🚀 **3x faster** file operations
- 🌐 **2x faster** HTTP serving
- ⚡ **Native** process spawning
- 🔧 **Zero dependencies** for core operations
- 📦 **Smaller bundle sizes**

### Real-world Impact:

- Faster startup times
- Reduced memory usage
- Better throughput
- Simplified deployments
- Lower server costs

---

## 🎯 Success Metrics

### Technical Metrics:

- **100%** Bun API compliance
- **0** Node.js require statements
- **All** file operations using Bun.file()
- **All** HTTP servers using Bun.serve()

### Performance Metrics:

- **3x** improvement in file I/O
- **2x** improvement in HTTP serving
- **5x** improvement in YAML parsing
- **50%** reduction in memory usage
- **25%** faster startup times

---

## 📋 YAML Configuration Policy (NEW)

### 🎯 **MANDATORY: Use Bun.YAML for All YAML Operations**

#### **Basic YAML Parsing**

```typescript
// ❌ FORBIDDEN: External YAML libraries
import { parse } from 'yaml';
import { load } from 'js-yaml';

// ✅ REQUIRED: Bun native YAML
import { YAML } from 'bun';

// Parse YAML string
const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);

// Parse YAML file directly
const configFile = await Bun.file('config.yaml').text();
const config = YAML.parse(configFile);

// Direct import (Bun supports this natively)
import config from './config.yaml';
```

#### **Multi-Document YAML Support**

```typescript
// ✅ Bun handles multi-document YAML natively
const multiDoc = `
---
name: Document 1
---
name: Document 2
---
name: Document 3
`;

const documents = YAML.parse(multiDoc);
// Returns: [{ name: "Document 1" }, { name: "Document 2" }, { name: "Document 3" }]
```

#### **Advanced YAML Features**

```typescript
// ✅ All YAML features supported natively
const advancedYaml = `
# Anchors and aliases
defaults: &defaults
  timeout: 30
  retries: 3

production:
  <<: *defaults
  host: prod.example.com

# Explicit types
port: !!int 8080
debug: !!bool true
path: !!str /api/v1

# Multi-line strings
description: |
  This is a literal
  multi-line string

summary: >
  This is a folded
  string that joins
  lines with spaces
`;

const config = YAML.parse(advancedYaml);
```

#### **Error Handling**

```typescript
// ✅ Proper error handling with Bun
try {
  const config = YAML.parse(yamlContent);
  console.log('YAML parsed successfully');
} catch (error) {
  if (error instanceof SyntaxError) {
    console.error('YAML syntax error:', error.message);
  } else {
    console.error('YAML parsing failed:', error);
  }
}
```

### 🚨 **CRITICAL MIGRATIONS REQUIRED**

#### **Replace js-yaml Usage**

```typescript
// ❌ REMOVE THESE PATTERNS:
import { load, dump } from 'js-yaml';
import yaml from 'js-yaml';

const config = load(yamlString);
const output = dump(config);

// ✅ REPLACE WITH:
import { YAML } from 'bun';

const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);
const output = YAML.stringify(config);
```

#### **Replace yaml Library Usage**

```typescript
// ❌ REMOVE THESE PATTERNS:
import { parse, stringify } from 'yaml';

const config = parse(yamlString);
const output = stringify(config);

// ✅ REPLACE WITH:
import { YAML } from 'bun';

const config = YAML.parse(yamlString);
const output = YAML.stringify(config);
```

#### **Update Configuration Loading**

```typescript
// ❌ OLD PATTERN:
import fs from 'fs';
import yaml from 'js-yaml';
const config = yaml.load(fs.readFileSync('config.yaml', 'utf8'));

// ✅ NEW PATTERN:
import { YAML } from 'bun';
const config = YAML.parse(await Bun.file('config.yaml').text());

// OR EVEN BETTER - Direct import:
import config from './config.yaml';
```

### 📊 **Performance Benefits**

| Operation       | js-yaml | Bun.YAML | Improvement   |
| --------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------- |
| Parse 1KB YAML  | 2.5ms   | 0.5ms    | **5x faster** |
| Parse 10KB YAML | 25ms    | 5ms      | **5x faster** |
| Multi-document  | 15ms    | 3ms      | **5x faster** |
| Memory usage    | 2MB     | 0.4MB    | **5x less**   |
| Dependencies    | 15MB    | 0MB      | **Zero deps** |

### 🔧 **Configuration Best Practices**

#### **Environment-Specific Configs**

```typescript
// ✅ Load environment-specific YAML configs
const loadConfig = async (env: string) => {
  try {
    const config = await import(`./config.${env}.yaml`);
    return config.default;
  } catch {
    // Fallback to default config
    const defaultConfig = await import('./config.yaml');
    return defaultConfig.default;
  }
};

const config = await loadConfig(process.env.NODE_ENV || 'development');
```

#### **Configuration Validation**

```typescript
// ✅ Validate YAML config structure
interface AppConfig {
  server: {
    port: number;
    host: string;
  };
  database: {
    url: string;
    timeout: number;
  };
}

const validateConfig = (config: any): config is AppConfig => {
  return (
    config?.server?.port &&
    config?.server?.host &&
    config?.database?.url &&
    config?.database?.timeout
  );
};

const config = YAML.parse(yamlContent);
if (!validateConfig(config)) {
  throw new Error('Invalid configuration structure');
}
```

#### **Hot Reloding Configuration**

```typescript
// ✅ Hot reload YAML configs
let currentConfig = await loadConfig();

const reloadConfig = async () => {
  try {
    const newConfig = YAML.parse(await Bun.file('config.yaml').text());
    if (JSON.stringify(newConfig) !== JSON.stringify(currentConfig)) {
      currentConfig = newConfig;
      console.log('Configuration reloaded');
    }
  } catch (error) {
    console.error('Failed to reload config:', error);
  }
};

// Watch for config changes
setInterval(reloadConfig, 5000);
```

---

## 🚨 Immediate Actions Required

### 1. Audit Existing Code

```bash
bun lib/bun-first-compliance.ts
```

### 2. Fix Critical Violations

- Replace Node.js imports
- Update file operations
- Migrate HTTP servers
- **MIGRATE ALL YAML USAGE TO BUN.YAML**

### 3. Update Development Practices

- Use Bun-first patterns in new code
- Add compliance checks to CI/CD
- Train team on Bun APIs
- **Enforce YAML-only configuration policy**

### 4. YAML Migration Checklist

- [ ] Remove `js-yaml` dependencies
- [ ] Replace `yaml` library imports
- [ ] Update all `YAML.load()` calls to `YAML.parse()`
- [ ] Replace `yaml.stringify()` with `YAML.stringify()`
- [ ] Implement direct YAML imports where possible
- [ ] Add YAML validation to CI/CD
- [ ] Update documentation and examples

---

## 🦌 Bun-First Manifesto

**We choose Bun first not just for performance, but for simplicity, reliability,
and the future of JavaScript runtime optimization.**

**Every line of code should leverage Bun's native capabilities. Every API call
should prioritize Bun's implementations. Every performance optimization should
start with Bun's built-in features.**

**This is our commitment to excellence, our dedication to performance, and our
investment in the future of web development.**

---

## 📞 Support & Resources

### Documentation:

- [Bun Documentation 🌐](https://bun.sh/docs)
- [Bun API Reference 🌐](https://bun.sh/docs/api)
- [Migration Guide](./BUN_FIRST_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md)

### Tools:

- `lib/bun-first-compliance.ts` - Compliance auditor
- `lib/silent-killer-detector.ts` - Pattern detector
- `BUN_FIRST_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md` - Step-by-step guide

### Getting Help:

- Check compliance reports
- Review migration examples
- Consult Bun documentation
- Ask for code review

---

**Remember: ALWAYS USE BUN FIRST! 🦌**
